README.md, before:

# C-Hash-table-demo

### Personal project hash table in C demonstration

- Learning project that demonstrates use of an array of linked lists to build a hash table that can store thousands of strings and carry out ten's of thousands of lookups in milliseconds
- Included "names.txt" serves as demo file can be read into the hash table by running ./hash_table.exe "names.txt"
- "names.txt" contains a list of 18,239 people's names 

### Menu Options
- Option 1 - Prints all items currently in the table 
- Option 2 - Prints 'n' number of items in order from the table
- Option 3/4/5 - Search / Add / Delete items from the hash table
- Option 6 - Can add any text file you want to hash table with command line argument or using built in menu
  - asked to provide the path and the number of items you want to take from there
  - will read in each line as an item to add as a string
- Option 7 - Exit, End program
- Option 8 - 'Timing Test' performs a search of 'n' items from file and records the time taken to look up items
  - This was run with different sized hash tables for optimisation puposes
  - Diminished returns for tables over 1000 in size


  ## TODO
  - [x] Add better data validation - negative values, non-numbers etc.
  - [ ] Find and implement more optimised hashing algorithm
  - [ ] More error checking
  - [x] Remove scanf() usuage, implement safer option
  - [ ] add support for .csv files
  - [x] check if wanting to print when over a hundred items

Commit message:

Added todo to fix behaviousr on windows cmd where char and then linefeed are grabbed from stdin in succession

README.md, after:

# C-Hash-table-demo

### Personal project hash table in C demonstration

- Learning project that demonstrates use of an array of linked lists to build a hash table that can store thousands of strings and carry out ten's of thousands of lookups in milliseconds
- Included "names.txt" serves as demo file can be read into the hash table by running ./hash_table.exe "names.txt"
- "names.txt" contains a list of 18,239 people's names 

### Menu Options
- Option 1 - Prints all items currently in the table 
- Option 2 - Prints 'n' number of items in order from the table
- Option 3/4/5 - Search / Add / Delete items from the hash table
- Option 6 - Can add any text file you want to hash table with command line argument or using built in menu
  - asked to provide the path and the number of items you want to take from there
  - will read in each line as an item to add as a string
- Option 7 - Exit, End program
- Option 8 - 'Timing Test' performs a search of 'n' items from file and records the time taken to look up items
  - This was run with different sized hash tables for optimisation puposes
  - Diminished returns for tables over 1000 in size


  ## TODO
  - [x] Add better data validation - negative values, non-numbers etc.
  - [ ] Find and implement more optimised hashing algorithm
  - [ ] More error checking
  - [x] Remove scanf() usuage, implement safer option
  - [ ] add support for .csv files
  - [ ] investigate and fix behaviour in windows cmd where user input accepts linefeed as next input, can't lookup items in hashtable
  - [x] check if wanting to print when over a hundred items
